---
layout: page 
title: Resume
permalink: /about/
---

##Download Resume
<!-- [$ \TeX$ ](https://github.com/basantajoshi/resume/blob/master/cv.tex){:style="color: blue; font-size:20"}  |   -->
[PDF](/files/resume.pdf){:style="color: blue; font-size:20"}



##Professional Experience

#### **Assistant professor at [Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, IOE](http://www.doece.ioe.edu.np), Lalitpur, Nepal**{: style="color: teal; font-size:12pt;"}
* *Apr, 2013 - Present  (1 year 2 months) <br>
Dec, 2005 ­ Dec, 2007 (2 years)*{: style="color: brown"}
* Teaching various Electronics and Computer Engineering subjects in the department. Also, supervising various undergraduate and undergraduate projects. 

#### **Research Consultant at [LogPoint](https://www.logpoint.com/en), Lalitpur, Japan**{: style="color: teal; font-size:12pt;"}
* *Jul, 2013 ­- Present (10 months)*{: style="color: brown"}
* Responsible for doing research on existing technologies and proposing/designing the better approach for the enhancing the features /architecture of the product LOGPOINT.
 

#### **Researcher/Teaching assistant at [Osaka Sangyo Unversity](www.nyushi.osaka-sandai.ac.jp/), Osaka, Japan**{: style="color: teal; font-size:12pt;"}
* *Oct, 2008 ­- Mar, 2013 (4 years 6 months)*{: style="color: brown"}
* Involved in variety of research activities as a prerequisite of the PhD degree. Research work was basically focused on Image processing and developing novel algorithm for the 3D visualization of fluid flows using C/C++ as major language and Eclipse and Matlab as platform.  In the process, attended and published articles in more than 6 peer reviewed and non peer reviewer international conferences. Also, worked as teaching assistant for C++, Java and embedded system classes and was also responsible for debugging the issues with networking, windows and Linux servers.

#### **Senior Software Engineer at D2hawkeye Services(Now [Verisk Information Technologies](http://www.veriskit.com/)), Kathmandu, Nepal**{: style="color: teal; font-size:12pt;"}
* *Aug, 2007 ­- Sep, 2008 (1 year 1 month)*{: style="color: brown"}
* Worked as a member of Data Analytics Department for building normative database and metrics of US healthcare data with hands on experience in working with DBMS like Oracle, MSSQL Server and MySQL. Also involved in developing automation tools using Java.




#### **Lecturer and Programmer in Various engineering colleges and IT company, Kathmandu, Nepal**{: style="color: teal; font-size:12pt;"}
* *Dec, 2005 ­- Sep, 2008 (2 years 9 months)*{: style="color: brown"}
* Worked as lecturer in various computer and electronics engineering colleges. Also, worked as Software Engineer to manage various projects from designing website to a complete client­server application. Hands on experience on working with DBMS like Oracle, MSSQL Server and MySQL and also with C, C++, Java, JSP/PHP.



##Education

#### **Doctor of engineering**, Mar, 2013  <br>
[Graduate school of  Osaka Sangyo Unversity](www.nyushi.osaka-sandai.ac.jp/), Osaka, Japan <br>
Thesis : **3D Volumetric Particle Tracking Velocimetry based on the Tomographic Reconstruction Technique** <br>
The research focused on the development of the novel algorithm for flow visualization based on the computed tomography. A robust system was developed to visualize the topology of the complex flow in three-dimension (3D) by parallel processing of the high volume of intensity data generated by projecting pixel intensity of the recorded images. <br>

#### **Masters of Science in Information and Communication Engineering**, Feb, 2008  <br>
Tribhuvan University, **[Institute of Engineering](http://www.ioe.edu.np), Central Campus Pulchowk,Nepal** <br>
Thesis : **Performance of Self Organizing Map PTV on the Basis of the PIV Standard Images** <br>
A Neural network based flow visualization techniques was developed and the performance was evaluated by synthetic images under varied experimental conditions.  <br>


#### **Bachelor of Electronics and Communication Engineering**, Oct, 2005   <br>
Tribhuvan University, **[Institute of Engineering](http://www.ioe.edu.np), Central Campus Pulchowk,Nepal** <br>
Major Project : **An implementation Of Digital Signal Processing Component (Audio compression) On Xilinx Spartan FPGA using VHDL** <br>
The project was research project to analyze the compression level of an audio signal (file) through hardware compression using FPGA board. The project incorporated the use of hardware descriptive language VHDL and Matlab. <br>
 


<!-- ##Coursera Achievements

####2013

1. [Machine Learnng](), *Andrew Ng*
2. [Analysis and Design of Algorithms - Part I](), *Tim RoughGarden*
3. [Introduction to data Science](), *Bill Howe*
4. [Computing for Data Analysis](), *Roger D. Peng*
5. [Image and Video Processing](), *Guillermo Sapiro*

####2014

6. [Unpredictable? Randomness, Chance and Free will](), *Valerio Scarani*
7. [Data Analysis and Statistical Inference](), *Dr. Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel*



##Programming Languages and Technologies
* Python, R, Octave/MATLAB, Java, C, C++, Scala
* Documentation: $\LaTeX$, MarkDown, Ipython Notebook, R MarkDown, Ms Word
* Databases: SQLite, MySQL
* Web : HTML, XML, XBRL, JSON, CSS, Jekyll
* Operating System:  Ubuntu, Windows
* IDE & Tools: Git, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Spyder, R-Studio, CodeBlocks, TexMaker, Visio



##Projects

####UnderGrad Major Project, XBRL Implementation for financial Reporting to Office of Company Registrar

A research project carrying out the study of prospects and implementation of XBRL for representation , open data initiation and mining of financial reports submitted to the Office of Company Registrar.



##Interests
* Watching Movies - I like Western, Suspense and Crime thrillers. I especially watch hollywood, and south indian movies.
* Visiting New places
* Learning New things - I'm always a student at Coursera.  -->